
设计三大原则

https://cloud.tencent.com/developer/article/1372372


https://blog.csdn.net/hguisu/article/details/78259898


具体的设计实例：
- 高并发的设计
- 异地灾备的设计
- 消息队列的设计
- 微信系统的设计（点对点通信）
- 微博系统的设计（消息订阅，发布）
- 淘宝系统的设计
- 异地访问延迟
- 高性能
- 微服务
- 语音系统的设计
- 地图系统的设计

https://blog.csdn.net/danpu0978/article/details/107274524



Which architectural pattern is best for a given situation depends on
which requirements have the highest priority, such as:
– Maintainability: how easy or difficult is it to add an additional pro59
Open Universiteit Software Architecture
cessing component, for instance to filter certain words? How easy
or difficult is it to change the input format, by adding line numbers,
for example? In the Pipe-Filter pattern for instance, adding a filter is
very easy, but changing the input format might be hard.
– Reusability: can individual components be reused in other systems?
In this case, the Pipe-and-Filter pattern enhances reusability because
of the uniform data format that is used.
– Performance: is the response time small enough? Is overall resource
behaviour (memory usage in this example) acceptable? Patterns that
make use of parallelism, such as the Pipe-Filter pattern and the EventBus pattern, will have better performance. On the other hand, starting a complex system like the Event Bus system, or transforming
data in every filter using a different data structure, may lower performance.
– Explicitness: is it possible to provide feedback to the user? Per stage?
This is not possible in the Pipe-Filter pattern, for instance.
– Fault tolerance: for the KWIC example, there is no difference between
the different solutions, but fault-tolerance would have been enhanced
if a Master-slave pattern been applied.
The list of requirements and their priorities will vary for every system.
No rigid guidelines are available to tell you which pattern will be the
best in every case. Much also depends on the implementation of the
pattern. Independent processes, for example, may be implemented using threads or using processes on different machines. The balance between communication and computation, the capacity of the processors
involved and the speed of communication between machines, among
other things, will decide which implementation will have the best performance